F5 302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist Exam Study Guide - NOT CREATED
=============================================================

|

**You can find the current exam blueprint published here:**
`https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K29900360 <https://support.f5.com/csp/article/K29900360>`__

|

.. caution::
  302 CONTENT IS NOT YET DEVELOPED and will be published if and when completed.

|

**Overview 302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist**

Welcome to the 302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist compiled Study Guide. The purpose of
this guide is to help you prepare for the F5 302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist exam.
The contents of this document are based on the F5 302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist
Exam Blueprint for TMOS v12.1.

**This study guide provides students with some of the basic foundational
knowledge required to pass the exam.**

*This study guide is a collection of information and therefore not a completely
original work.* The majority of the information is compiled from F5 sources
that are located on Internet. All of the information locations are referenced
at the top of each topic instead of in an Appendix of this document. This was
done to help the reader access the reference the linked information easier
without having to search through a formal appendix.

This guide also references some resources. Those books are a great source of
information on Domain Name Services (DNS) and BIG-IP Domain Name Services
(BIG-IP DNS).

The F5 Certified BIG-IP Administrator (F5-CA), which is made up of the 101 -
App Delivery Fundamentals and 201 - TMOS Administration exams, stand as a
pre-requisite to this exam. 

Taking certified F5 BIG-IP DNS training, such as Configuring BIG-IP DNS v12,
will surely help with the topics of this exam but does not teach directly to
the exam content. Hands on administrative experience with the BIG-IP platform
licensed with BIG-IP DNS will reinforce many of the topics contained in the
302 - BIG-IP DNS Specialist exam.
 
This guide was prepared by an F5 employee but is not an official F5 document
and is *not* supported by F5.

**Reading = Knowledge = Power**

**Printed References**

These referenced books are and important and should be considered basic reading
material for this exam.

(Ref:1) Kozierok, Charles M. 2005. The TCP/IP Guide. No Starch Press, Inc. San Francisco, CA. 94103. ISBN 1-59327-047-X  pp 947 -1080

(Ref:2) Liu, Cricket and Albitz, Paul. 2006. DNS and BIND, Fifth Edition. Oâ€™Reilly Media, Inc. Sebastopol, CA. 95472. ISBN 978-0-596-10057-5

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   modules/module*
